# Common Regression Issues
Matthew Reda

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

[![](https://github.com/redam94/common_regression_issues/actions/workflows/test.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/redam94/common_regression_issues/actions/workflows/test.yaml)

Please hop on over to the
[site](https://redam94.github.io/common_regression_issues), there I
cover several topics that I’ve encountered while modelling. Please feel
free to raise an
[issue](https://github.com/redam94/common_regression_issues/issues) if
there is a topic that you think should be discussed, or if there are any
changes/clarifications/errors you find on the
[site](https://redam94.github.io/common_regression_issues).

## [Sampling Error](https://redam94.github.io/common_regression_issues/sampling_error.html)

This section delves into the challenges posed by inaccuracies in
independent variables within regression models. It highlights how such
errors can lead to biased and inconsistent parameter estimates, even
when sampling designs are unbiased and respondent answers are accurate.
Through practical examples, like surveys assessing brand advertisement
recall and its effect on sales, the section demonstrates the potential
distortions sampling errors can introduce into regression outcomes. To
address these issues, it explores strategies such as employing latent
variable models and carefully considering the observation process to
mitigate the negative impacts of sampling errors on regression analyses.

## [Multicollinearity](https://redam94.github.io/common_regression_issues/multicollinearity.html)

This section examines the challenges posed by multicollinearity in
regression models, particularly from a causal perspective. It utilizes
Directed Acyclic Graphs (DAGs) to illustrate how multicollinearity can
complicate the estimation of causal effects, using examples like
assessing the impact of paid search impressions on sales. The section
emphasizes the importance of identifying and adjusting for confounding
variables to obtain unbiased estimates, highlighting that high Variance
Inflation Factors (VIFs) can inflate standard errors and reduce estimate
precision. It also discusses strategies to mitigate multicollinearity’s
impact, such as focusing on relevant adjustment variables and refining
causal models in collaboration with experts and stakeholders.

## [The Illusion of Significance](https://redam94.github.io/common_regression_issues/the_illusion_of_significance.html)

Statistical models drive millions in spending decisions, yet beneath
their precise-looking numbers lurks a dangerous problem. This post
examines how the practice of selecting variables based on p-values
creates a statistical house of cards; especially in Marketing Mix
Modeling (MMM) and budget optimization. I show why common techniques
like stepwise regression inevitably produce overconfident models with
biased estimates that violate the very statistical principles they claim
to uphold. These methodological flaws can result in money flowing to the
wrong marketing channels based on **illusory** performance metrics. I
demonstrate why Bayesian approaches offer a more honest alternative by
naturally tempering overconfidence, incorporating what we already know,
and providing intuitive uncertainty measures. Through techniques like
spike-and-slab priors (or regularized horseshoe priors) and Bayesian
Model Averaging (BMA), analysts can move beyond arbitrary significance
thresholds toward probability-based decision-making. While Bayesian
methods do require more computational horsepower and thoughtful prior
specification, modern software has made them increasingly accessible.
Using simulated examples inspired by real-world marketing and economic
modeling, I show how Bayesian methods produce more reliable insights
that lead to smarter budget allocation decisions.
