# Common Regression Issues


<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

[![](https://github.com/redam94/common_regression_issues/actions/workflows/test.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/redam94/common_regression_issues/actions/workflows/test.yaml)

Please hop on over to the
[site](https://redam94.github.io/common_regression_issues), there I
cover several topics that I’ve encountered while modelling. Please feel
free to raise an
[issue](https://github.com/redam94/common_regression_issues/issues) if
there is a topic that you think should be discussed, or if there are any
changes/clarifications/errors you find on the
[site](https://redam94.github.io/common_regression_issues).

## [Measurement Error](https://redam94.github.io/common_regression_issues/measurement_error.html)

This section delves into the challenges posed by inaccuracies in
independent variables within regression models. It highlights how such
errors can lead to biased and inconsistent parameter estimates, even
when sampling designs are unbiased and respondent answers are accurate.
Through practical examples, like surveys assessing brand advertisement
recall and its effect on sales, the section demonstrates the potential
distortions measurement errors can introduce into regression outcomes.
To address these issues, it explores strategies such as employing latent
variable models and carefully considering the observation process to
mitigate the negative impacts of measurement errors on regression
analyses.

## [Multicollinearity](https://redam94.github.io/common_regression_issues/multicollinearity.html)

This section examines the challenges posed by multicollinearity in
regression models, particularly from a causal perspective. It utilizes
Directed Acyclic Graphs (DAGs) to illustrate how multicollinearity can
complicate the estimation of causal effects, using examples like
assessing the impact of paid search impressions on sales. The section
emphasizes the importance of identifying and adjusting for confounding
variables to obtain unbiased estimates, highlighting that high Variance
Inflation Factors (VIFs) can inflate standard errors and reduce estimate
precision. It also discusses strategies to mitigate multicollinearity’s
impact, such as focusing on relevant adjustment variables and refining
causal models in collaboration with experts and stakeholders.
